ae TE RN
_THE_ATTEMPT ON THE KHEDIVE.

Everyone who knows Egypt at all must have been moved
‘to strong indignation by the news of the dastardly attempt
on the Khedive’s life last Saturday in Constantinople, and
the feeling of thankfulness that that attempt failed will be
shared by an overwhelming majority of Englishmen and
Egyptians alike. Happily, no political significance whatever
need be attached to the outrage. It was not the act of a
Nationalist, as has been represented in some quarters. Neither
was it the work of a fanatic, as has been declared in other
quarters. ‘The plain fact is that Mahmoud Mazhar, the would-
be assassin, was a decadent seeking notoriety, and possibly
tainted by the idea—too prevalent to-day—that to pull down
those who sit in high places is necessarily a good action.
That Abbas II., who is perhaps the very last ruler who
could be accused of tyranny, should be the subject of such
an outrage, is a comment on the offender’s intelligence. But
it is little more. If it has achieved anything it has been
to strengthen the Khedive’s hold on the affections of his
people. In the words of the official communiqué recounting
the incident, ‘From one end of the country to the other
Egyptian people offer thanksgiving to God for the Divine
protection accorded to our beloved Khedive, and express the
devout and unanimous wish to_safeguard the precious life of
our Sovereign from the attempts of traitors for the good of
the country.”